# Severity-classification-of-software-code-smells-using-machine-learning-techniques
Severity classification of software code smells using machine learning techniques
Code smell is a software characteristic that indicates bad symptoms in code design which causes problems related to software quality. The severity of code smells must be measured because it will help the developers when determining the priority of refactoring efforts. Recently, several studies focused on the prediction of design patterns errors and bad smells in software programs using different detection tools. Nowadays, there is a lack of empirical studies regarding how to measure severity of code smells using machine learning models and which model is best to detect the severity of code smells. To overcome such gap, this paper focuses on measuring the severity classification of code smells by introducing a comparative study between more than 10 classifiers. This paper depends on several machine learning models such as: regression model, multi-nominal model, and ordinal classification model. The Local Interpretable Model Agnostic Explanations (LIME) algorithm was further used to explain the machine learning model’s predictions and interpretability. On other side, we extract the prediction rules generated by the Projective Adaptive Resonance Theory (PART) algorithm in order to study the effectiveness of using software metrics to predict code smells. The results of experiments shown that, the accuracy of severity classification model is enhanced than previous studies by using Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE) as preprocessing step. We measured the accuracy of these classifiers for each type of learning models after applying SMOTE and we compared our results with a previous study has applied on same benchmark. The ranking correlation between the predicted and actual model in this study reaches 0.92-0.97 for best results, by using spearman’s correlation measure.
